3/26/2026
For the energy source mix variable, I was actually just interested in a metric for showing 
renewability, or how good for the environment using electricity was dependent on different 
times and locations. I just realize I could use emissions data instead of resource mix. This 
is what I actually did with the original CAISO project, and I should have caught this earlier. 
My resource mix plan was complicated because I just realized that the dataset I was using for 
renewables only includes some (probably most) wind and solar plants, but not other renewable
sources. It also depended on using a fraction of renewable and non-renewable energy generation 
from two separate data sets, and geographically mapping non-renewable data to the same geographic 
grouping as the renewable data, which required making some assumptions.
I think that the issue here was in my planning system. I jumped ahead too early and just used the 
energy source mix as my target. Then I checked what CAISO offered, and tried to build a metric from 
there. Claude suggests that I should have chosen a metric first, (e.g. MW of renewable generation / 
MW of total generation), and then written the dataset plan myself. It suggests I would have caught 
the discrepancy earlier this way. I think that being more clear with what I wanted first, then 
coming up with a metric, and understanding myself enough of the CAISO grid to come up with a metric, 
and then writing a plan for the data myself, would have helped. I rushed a little. "Slow is smooth 
and smooth is fast." Also, Claude mentioned that if I knew the point of OASIS (data for bidding on 
the energy generation, etc) I would have questioned using it for a measurement of resource generation. 
This is because some generators don't get included in market generation in the same way. It also 
mentioned that I shouldn't have written code and then produced the memory file as a result, but 
I should have written a plan first, then generated the code from it. Its like what the Head of 
Claude Code Boris Cherny said about making a good plan first leading to success down the line.
